blog.md, before:

# **BootCamp Blog**

# Post #6
## Onboarding Sprint 2 | Week 4
### *02.17.23* 

## What did you learn about that helped you understand the development process?
> Using breakpoints and console logs really helped me to better understand how my code is being interpreted in the browser. This week I really tried to focus on embracing incremental coding and gaining a more firm understanding of JS and the myriad of ways to approach and solve problems.

## What does it mean to develop good code?
> At this stage, good code for me is not perhaps the most efficient method to solve a problem, but whatever method I find that makes sense to me. At some point I hope that I gain a level of competence that will allow me to approach coding in a way that centers around industry best practices. For now, my focus is on working through the processes we’ve learned and maintaining a clear understanding of the underlying logic that I am aiming to program into my projects. 


## What does it mean to be a good developer?
> I would imagine a good developer is a master in the craft of problem solving. Able to examine and comprehend all factors in play, understand the mechanics at work, capable of breaking large problems down into smaller problems, then formulating solutions with an eye on the overarching goals of the entire project. I’m sure there are many other things that characterize a good developer, but an ability to solve problems systematically stands out to me as a crucial skill.
 
## What is one thing that programmers hate doing?
> Getting bogged down with easily avoidable mistakes has been a frustrating pain point for me so far. I’ve lost count of the number of times I have found myself blocked on a problem, only to find out hours later that the solution was something as simple as a typo or missing file link. Encountering silly problems like this has set me back a few times, resulting in deadline pressure to achieve the minimum viable product.

# Post #5
## Sprint 1 | HTML/CSS/JS/State | Week 3
### *02.10.23* 

## What is the number one thing that held you back this week? Why?
> The only thing that really held me back this week is the same thing that had been holding me back since our last sprint - JavaScript. Although I am making consistent progress in understanding the language and how to implement it, there are still some very basic fundamental structural and relational principles that I am still not fully grasping. Spending time in one-on-one huddles with my classmates and instructors has helped me to progress through projects, but it will take some time for me to gain the competence that I need. 


## What is one thing you would like to learn more about regarding JavaScript (JSON, Data Structures), Bootstrap, or Atomic Design?
> Objects, functions and event listeners are areas that I really need to spend some extra time on moving forward. With Bootstrap, I feel comfortable that I have a general idea of how to build with it, but I think I have only scratched the surface. Learning about atomic design felt very intuitive for me, as it is something I’ve encountered before and isn’t very far off from what is taught in print layout design. It will certainly be a great way to conceptualize and form a concise and ordered understanding of the structure of elements on the pages I build, and the relationships between them.

## What is your “Why”?
> If I had to condense it down to one thing, it’s the satisfaction that learning and writing code brings me. Even when I’m struggling and nothing works, I enjoy the process. There are many many more reasons, but how much I enjoy the grind of development sits right at the core of my reasons for being here.


# Post #4
## Onboarding Sprint 2 | Week 2
### *02.03.23* 

**What are your thoughts about the roles HTML, CSS, and JavaScript play in the process of rendering content and providing user experience?**
> The more I learn about each language, the more I can conceptualize the relationships between the three. JavaScript has been the biggest challenge for me so far, but I'm determined to keep hammering away at it. I think the Code Wars warm-ups will be a great way to keep growing my understanding and confidence with the language.  

**What are your thoughts on pseudocoding?**
> At first I didn't quite understand the actual utility of pseudo code. After a little practice, working from pseudo code to actual code helped me gain a better understanding and appreciation for the process. It will take some time for me to develop my own style and ensure that I am writing comprehensive and efficient code.  

**What was helpful during Onboarding working remotely?**
> Trusting in the process and simply focusing on the next problem has been helpful for me to this point. I keep handwritten check lists to keep my order of work pointed in the right direction, then I just dive into the work, checking boxes as I progress. The slack channel has been an invaluable resource throughout onboarding. Interacting with everyone throughout the day has made working remotely more engaging.  

**What hindered your progress during Onboarding?**
> The only thing that has hindered me throughout onboarding is my ability to absorb and apply highly technical information on short recall. I'm confident that over time and with repetition, not only will my understanding of the material increase but also my ability to retain and utilize new information more quickly and accurately.  

**How did you overcome challenges during Onboarding?**
> Seeing that nearly everything has been a challenge for me so far, I suppose simple persistance has willed me through to this point. Getting 8 hours of sleep, eating clean and staying hydrated I'm sure has helped me to sustain my energy and focus throughout the day as well.

# Post #3
## Retrospective | Week 2
### *02.03.23* 

**What did you enjoy?**
> The amount of material we covered this week was a bit overwhelming at times, but I feel like I learned a great deal. Working through and gaining a better understanding of pseudo code was definitely the most enjoyable part of the past week for me. Once I began the final project of the week, one where we were expected to build  an alarm clock without any tutorial guides or provided code, I could really see the value in building a strong foundation with pseudo coding. I didn’t finish the alarm clock project, however I gained a lot of confidence in working from pseudo code to actual code.  

**What worked?**
> Working through the first and last projects of the week were a tremendous help to me in my process of better understanding the structure of JavaScript and the way that objects and functions interact. I still have a long way to go, but knowing where the starting block is has made it a lot easier to understand the process of getting from a concept to a functioning website.  

**What didn’t?**
> I spent more time than I would have liked on the W3 schools JavaScript documentation and tutorials. I worked through each section, only moving forward when I felt comfortable that I had a solid understanding of the material. The amount of information was overwhelming, but exposure to the documentation helped me to more easily find answers to questions I would have when working through projects later in the week. My biggest blockers this week were executing a for loop to render images on screen from an array of image files. I eventually referenced the source code in order to work through the code and gain a better understanding. A second blocker was in figuring out how to construct a working alarm feature to work with my running clock. I didn’t encounter this blocker until just before code freeze on Friday, so managing my time wisely throughout this next week will be a focus of mine.  

**Looking ahead…?**
> Right now, I’m trying to stay focused on trusting the process and progressing through the material and projects at my own pace. I have a lot of work to do in order to gain the competency in JavaScript that I aim to achieve.  


# Post #2
## Retrospective | Week 1
### *01.27.23*             

**What helps you to be successful as a team?**
> Great leadership, communication and shared struggle. I was worried about this being remote, but the slack channel has really helped to keep me plugged in to not feel so isolated.  

**How did you do this sprint?**
> I think I did ok, but I could have done much better. The first two days were a huge struggle for me, and I still have assignments from those days that I need to return to and work through. The second half of the week felt much more productive, although I do think I could have pushed myself to achieve stretch goals and challenge myself more.  

**Where and when did it go wrong in this sprint?**
> The bug on our first day and the W3 Git and Github tutorial were very difficult for me to work through. I still haven’t finished either assignment, but plan to revisit them and at least get repetitions and hopefully gain a better understanding of the material.  

**What do you expect, from who?**
> I expect to learn a great deal everyday and grow as a developer over the coming months from my instructors, classmates and the material provided to us.  

**Which tools or techniques proved to be useful?**
> I would have to say the full spectrum of everything combined has been an enormous help throughout this week. We have been provided a wide variety of material through both our assigned work as well as extra resources that address individual and group concerns. Josh and Andrew have done great job pacing the class so that anyone struggling is provided assistance, while those advancing quickly are provided more opportunities to stretch and explore.  

**What is your biggest impediment?**
> The fully remote format has been a challenge. I enjoy being physically present with my instructors and classmates, and the bond that that can build, so it’s been an adjustment for me especially when it comes to asking questions and interacting with everyone. It is nice to not have to pack a lunch and commute though! That being said, I do hope that by being challenged in a remote setting I will be better equipped to work remotely in the future if needed.  

**If you could change 1 thing, what would it be?**
> It would be nice to be in-person, but I can’t say that I would change anything. I’m enjoying the process so far, and really enjoy working with and learning from my instructors and classmates.  



# Post #1
## Onboarding Sprint 1 | Week 1
### *01/26/23*
  
**Was your first week what you expected? Why? Why not?**
> So far the first week of bootcamp has been mix of expected and unexepected experiences. Leading up to day 1, we were given a lot of material to read through which outlines what we could expect entering the first week and beyond. However, I had not anticipated having such a difficult time understanding and becoming comfortable with Git and GitHub. I am still working on assignments from the first two days, with very litle progress, but I am improving slowly each time I attempt working through the tutorials. Moving into HTML and CSS yesterday was a nice break from CLI and Git commands. I will need to spend extra time working on Git and GitHub over the coming days to ensure that I don't slow my self down once we get deeper into our first projects.  

![alt text](images/post1/teamwork.png)

**What are you excited or eager to learn more about?**
> Right now, I am most excited about the challenge of becoming proficient in Git and GitHub. The first two days were really difficult for me, so it will take quite a bit more effort for me to get over this hump and feel comfortable moving ahead. I'm also excited to dive into HTML and CSS, and begin to see things rendered and styled in the browser.  

![alt text](images/post1/gitlogo.webp)

**What is something about you that can only be learned by reading this blog?**
> I suppose anything unique to be learned about me from reading this blog is a look into my thought processs and how I am working through my days. I anticipate this blog being useful in backtracking to measure my progress, keeping a running record of my daily thoughts. 

![alt text](images/post1/brain-computer-interface.jpeg)

Commit message:

Added technical article to blog.md

blog.md, after:

# **BootCamp Blog**

# Post #7
## Onboarding Sprint 3 | Week 5
### *02.24.23*
###

### *What is pseudocode and how does it help with programming?*  

#### *What is Pseudocode?*
Oxford languages broadly defines Pseudocode as, “a notation resembling a simplified programming language, used in program design”, but what exactly is pseudocode? Why is it used, and why is it a helpful tool for programmers? In the following article we will explore these questions and hopefully arrive at a clearer understanding of the principles and power of pseudocode.
#### *So, what is pseudocode exactly?*
The Economic Times introduces the concept of pseudocode as, “an informal way of programming description that does not require any strict programming language syntax or underlying considerations. Simple enough. Computer programming languages are structured using syntactic rules, which through many layers of abstraction, allow us to type and click our way through the technologies we encounter everyday. Anyone who has attempted to learn any programming language will tell you that learning all of the syntax, principles and best practices in even the simplest languages is no easy feat. Now, while there are certainly individuals who have the ability to sit down and build programs from start to finish with little to no ideation or early work-up, for the rest of us mere mortals, this is where pseudocode comes in handy. 
#### *Why should I use it?*
Imagine trying to build a skyscraper without a blueprint, or attempting to off-trail land navigation without a map. Now, it can certainly be done, but what that blueprint and map provides is a foundation from which to build upon. This foundation is where all of the basic problem solving takes place. While blueprints and maps might not be the most accurate comparisons to use, the general take-away here is that pseudocode is a tool to build a sturdy foundation upon which to work from in order to reach more complex implementations.

You’ll likely get a different answer from any programmer as to what exactly they believe pseudocode is technically. There is a seemingly endless number of technology stacks, made up of a wide number of languages, designed to accomplish countless objectives from which programmers each subjectively aim to achieve. This technological labyrinth of possibility means that each programmer will inevitably develop their own method and style when approaching the practice of pseudocoding. Now, with all of this being said, there are still some basic rules that apply to most, if not all pseudocode. Keywords such as INPUT, OUTPUT,  IF, THEN, ELSE, FOR, WHILE, GET, DISPLAY and many many others serve as a general marker for programmers to use in attempting to work out the basic logic of whatever program they are attempting to build.
#### *In summary*
However one approaches pseudocode, the main goal should always be to use simple language to work through the logic of a system that is to be built. The key objective is to nail down the broad strokes and step into the arena of computer programming equipped with a simplified understanding of the underlying logic which is to be programmed with actual computer programming languages. This article is meant only to address an introductory approach to the concept of pseudocode, providing a general overview of this powerful tool that serves as a starting block only. Beyond the scope of this article are well established styles of pseudocode that are tailored for specific programming languages. For anyone interested in further exploring the foundational principles of pseudocode, check out the links below.

[Definition of Pseudocode](https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/definition/pseudocode)  
 
[How to Write Pseudocode](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-write-a-pseudo-code/)  
[What is Pseudocode in Programming?](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-is-pseudocode-in-programming/)  
[What is Pseudocode?](https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/pseudocode)  
[Pseudocode according to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudocode) 


# Post #6
## Onboarding Sprint 2 | Week 4
### *02.17.23* 

## What did you learn about that helped you understand the development process?
> Using breakpoints and console logs really helped me to better understand how my code is being interpreted in the browser. This week I really tried to focus on embracing incremental coding and gaining a more firm understanding of JS and the myriad of ways to approach and solve problems.

## What does it mean to develop good code?
> At this stage, good code for me is not perhaps the most efficient method to solve a problem, but whatever method I find that makes sense to me. At some point I hope that I gain a level of competence that will allow me to approach coding in a way that centers around industry best practices. For now, my focus is on working through the processes we’ve learned and maintaining a clear understanding of the underlying logic that I am aiming to program into my projects. 


## What does it mean to be a good developer?
> I would imagine a good developer is a master in the craft of problem solving. Able to examine and comprehend all factors in play, understand the mechanics at work, capable of breaking large problems down into smaller problems, then formulating solutions with an eye on the overarching goals of the entire project. I’m sure there are many other things that characterize a good developer, but an ability to solve problems systematically stands out to me as a crucial skill.
 
## What is one thing that programmers hate doing?
> Getting bogged down with easily avoidable mistakes has been a frustrating pain point for me so far. I’ve lost count of the number of times I have found myself blocked on a problem, only to find out hours later that the solution was something as simple as a typo or missing file link. Encountering silly problems like this has set me back a few times, resulting in deadline pressure to achieve the minimum viable product.

# Post #5
## Sprint 1 | HTML/CSS/JS/State | Week 3
### *02.10.23* 

## What is the number one thing that held you back this week? Why?
> The only thing that really held me back this week is the same thing that had been holding me back since our last sprint - JavaScript. Although I am making consistent progress in understanding the language and how to implement it, there are still some very basic fundamental structural and relational principles that I am still not fully grasping. Spending time in one-on-one huddles with my classmates and instructors has helped me to progress through projects, but it will take some time for me to gain the competence that I need. 


## What is one thing you would like to learn more about regarding JavaScript (JSON, Data Structures), Bootstrap, or Atomic Design?
> Objects, functions and event listeners are areas that I really need to spend some extra time on moving forward. With Bootstrap, I feel comfortable that I have a general idea of how to build with it, but I think I have only scratched the surface. Learning about atomic design felt very intuitive for me, as it is something I’ve encountered before and isn’t very far off from what is taught in print layout design. It will certainly be a great way to conceptualize and form a concise and ordered understanding of the structure of elements on the pages I build, and the relationships between them.

## What is your “Why”?
> If I had to condense it down to one thing, it’s the satisfaction that learning and writing code brings me. Even when I’m struggling and nothing works, I enjoy the process. There are many many more reasons, but how much I enjoy the grind of development sits right at the core of my reasons for being here.


# Post #4
## Onboarding Sprint 2 | Week 2
### *02.03.23* 

**What are your thoughts about the roles HTML, CSS, and JavaScript play in the process of rendering content and providing user experience?**
> The more I learn about each language, the more I can conceptualize the relationships between the three. JavaScript has been the biggest challenge for me so far, but I'm determined to keep hammering away at it. I think the Code Wars warm-ups will be a great way to keep growing my understanding and confidence with the language.  

**What are your thoughts on pseudocoding?**
> At first I didn't quite understand the actual utility of pseudo code. After a little practice, working from pseudo code to actual code helped me gain a better understanding and appreciation for the process. It will take some time for me to develop my own style and ensure that I am writing comprehensive and efficient code.  

**What was helpful during Onboarding working remotely?**
> Trusting in the process and simply focusing on the next problem has been helpful for me to this point. I keep handwritten check lists to keep my order of work pointed in the right direction, then I just dive into the work, checking boxes as I progress. The slack channel has been an invaluable resource throughout onboarding. Interacting with everyone throughout the day has made working remotely more engaging.  

**What hindered your progress during Onboarding?**
> The only thing that has hindered me throughout onboarding is my ability to absorb and apply highly technical information on short recall. I'm confident that over time and with repetition, not only will my understanding of the material increase but also my ability to retain and utilize new information more quickly and accurately.  

**How did you overcome challenges during Onboarding?**
> Seeing that nearly everything has been a challenge for me so far, I suppose simple persistance has willed me through to this point. Getting 8 hours of sleep, eating clean and staying hydrated I'm sure has helped me to sustain my energy and focus throughout the day as well.

# Post #3
## Retrospective | Week 2
### *02.03.23* 

**What did you enjoy?**
> The amount of material we covered this week was a bit overwhelming at times, but I feel like I learned a great deal. Working through and gaining a better understanding of pseudo code was definitely the most enjoyable part of the past week for me. Once I began the final project of the week, one where we were expected to build  an alarm clock without any tutorial guides or provided code, I could really see the value in building a strong foundation with pseudo coding. I didn’t finish the alarm clock project, however I gained a lot of confidence in working from pseudo code to actual code.  

**What worked?**
> Working through the first and last projects of the week were a tremendous help to me in my process of better understanding the structure of JavaScript and the way that objects and functions interact. I still have a long way to go, but knowing where the starting block is has made it a lot easier to understand the process of getting from a concept to a functioning website.  

**What didn’t?**
> I spent more time than I would have liked on the W3 schools JavaScript documentation and tutorials. I worked through each section, only moving forward when I felt comfortable that I had a solid understanding of the material. The amount of information was overwhelming, but exposure to the documentation helped me to more easily find answers to questions I would have when working through projects later in the week. My biggest blockers this week were executing a for loop to render images on screen from an array of image files. I eventually referenced the source code in order to work through the code and gain a better understanding. A second blocker was in figuring out how to construct a working alarm feature to work with my running clock. I didn’t encounter this blocker until just before code freeze on Friday, so managing my time wisely throughout this next week will be a focus of mine.  

**Looking ahead…?**
> Right now, I’m trying to stay focused on trusting the process and progressing through the material and projects at my own pace. I have a lot of work to do in order to gain the competency in JavaScript that I aim to achieve.  


# Post #2
## Retrospective | Week 1
### *01.27.23*             

**What helps you to be successful as a team?**
> Great leadership, communication and shared struggle. I was worried about this being remote, but the slack channel has really helped to keep me plugged in to not feel so isolated.  

**How did you do this sprint?**
> I think I did ok, but I could have done much better. The first two days were a huge struggle for me, and I still have assignments from those days that I need to return to and work through. The second half of the week felt much more productive, although I do think I could have pushed myself to achieve stretch goals and challenge myself more.  

**Where and when did it go wrong in this sprint?**
> The bug on our first day and the W3 Git and Github tutorial were very difficult for me to work through. I still haven’t finished either assignment, but plan to revisit them and at least get repetitions and hopefully gain a better understanding of the material.  

**What do you expect, from who?**
> I expect to learn a great deal everyday and grow as a developer over the coming months from my instructors, classmates and the material provided to us.  

**Which tools or techniques proved to be useful?**
> I would have to say the full spectrum of everything combined has been an enormous help throughout this week. We have been provided a wide variety of material through both our assigned work as well as extra resources that address individual and group concerns. Josh and Andrew have done great job pacing the class so that anyone struggling is provided assistance, while those advancing quickly are provided more opportunities to stretch and explore.  

**What is your biggest impediment?**
> The fully remote format has been a challenge. I enjoy being physically present with my instructors and classmates, and the bond that that can build, so it’s been an adjustment for me especially when it comes to asking questions and interacting with everyone. It is nice to not have to pack a lunch and commute though! That being said, I do hope that by being challenged in a remote setting I will be better equipped to work remotely in the future if needed.  

**If you could change 1 thing, what would it be?**
> It would be nice to be in-person, but I can’t say that I would change anything. I’m enjoying the process so far, and really enjoy working with and learning from my instructors and classmates.  



# Post #1
## Onboarding Sprint 1 | Week 1
### *01/26/23*
  
**Was your first week what you expected? Why? Why not?**
> So far the first week of bootcamp has been mix of expected and unexepected experiences. Leading up to day 1, we were given a lot of material to read through which outlines what we could expect entering the first week and beyond. However, I had not anticipated having such a difficult time understanding and becoming comfortable with Git and GitHub. I am still working on assignments from the first two days, with very litle progress, but I am improving slowly each time I attempt working through the tutorials. Moving into HTML and CSS yesterday was a nice break from CLI and Git commands. I will need to spend extra time working on Git and GitHub over the coming days to ensure that I don't slow my self down once we get deeper into our first projects.  

![alt text](images/post1/teamwork.png)

**What are you excited or eager to learn more about?**
> Right now, I am most excited about the challenge of becoming proficient in Git and GitHub. The first two days were really difficult for me, so it will take quite a bit more effort for me to get over this hump and feel comfortable moving ahead. I'm also excited to dive into HTML and CSS, and begin to see things rendered and styled in the browser.  

![alt text](images/post1/gitlogo.webp)

**What is something about you that can only be learned by reading this blog?**
> I suppose anything unique to be learned about me from reading this blog is a look into my thought processs and how I am working through my days. I anticipate this blog being useful in backtracking to measure my progress, keeping a running record of my daily thoughts. 

![alt text](images/post1/brain-computer-interface.jpeg)
